feat: Add Read Support for Presto-MaxCompute Connector (#4)
prestodb/presto-alibaba-maxcompute-connector: README.md

# MaxCompute Connector

> The MaxCompute connector enables direct querying and processing of data stored in the MaxCompute data warehouse. This connector is particularly useful for implementing data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MaxCompute connector enables direct querying and processing of data stored in the MaxCompute data warehouse. This connector is useful for implementing data
```

integration and analysis between MaxCompute and other systems, such as Hive.

## MaxCompute Connector Setup

### Prerequisites

> Before using the MaxCompute connector, please ensure the following conditions are met:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the MaxCompute connector, ensure the following conditions are met:
```

> - Access permissions: Ensure you have valid access rights to a MaxCompute project and that you have obtained the necessary authentication credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access permissions: You must have valid access rights to a MaxCompute project and the necessary authentication credentials for that project.
```

> - Network setup: For stable data transmission, the use of Aliyun VPC network is recommended. Check out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Network setup: For stable data transmission, the use of Aliyun VPC network is recommended. See
```

  the [MaxCompute Network Configuration Guide](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/network-connection-process) for more information.

> - Resource group configuration: Possession of an exclusive Tunnel resource group is required (although MaxCompute currently allows access to shared resource groups, this could

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resource group configuration: Possession of an exclusive Tunnel resource group is required. Note: MaxCompute currently allows access to shared resource groups, but this could
```

>   change at any time). [Exclusive resource group](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/purchase-and-use-exclusive-resource-groups-for-dts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  change at any time. See [Exclusive resource group](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/purchase-and-use-exclusive-resource-groups-for-dts).
```

> - (Optional) Schema activation: Enable Schema mode to use different directories in Presto. Refer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (Optional) Schema activation: Enable Schema mode to use different directories in Presto. See
```

>   to [How to Enable Schema Model in MaxCompute](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/schema-related-operations) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [How to Enable Schema Model in MaxCompute](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/schema-related-operations) for more information.
```

### Obtain the Connector JAR

> To use the MaxCompute connector, you first need to obtain the JAR file by building the repository. Use the Maven command `mvn clean package` to build the project and generate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtain the JAR file by building the repository. Use the Maven command `mvn clean package` to build the project and generate the
```
Consider making this a set of numbered steps. Something like the following example: 

1. Clone the repository (include a link if possible) 
2. Use the Maven command `mvn clean package` to build the project and generate the JAR. 
3. Move the JAR file into the `plugin/maxcompute` directory in your Presto installation.

JAR. Once built, place the JAR file into the `plugin/maxcompute` directory within your Presto installation.

### Configuration

> Before configuring the MaxCompute connector, please ensure you have prepared all the necessary information associated with your MaxCompute project, including project name, access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before configuring the MaxCompute connector, have ready all the necessary information associated with your MaxCompute project, including project name, access
```

> ID, access key, and resource group name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID, access key, and resource group name.

```
Suggest a blank line here to left-justify the next sentence "Follow the steps below..."

> Follow the steps below to create a configuration file (e.g., `maxcompute.properties`) in Presto's `etc/catalog` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a configuration file (for example, `maxcompute.properties`) in Presto's `etc/catalog` directory:
```
Suggest making this a set of numbered steps.

```properties
# MaxCompute Connector
connector.name=maxcompute
# MaxCompute project name, connections support only this project
odps.project.name=<Your MaxCompute Project Name>
# Alibaba Cloud authentication parameter
odps.access.id=<Your Alibaba Cloud Access ID>
# Alibaba Cloud authentication parameter
odps.access.key=<Your Alibaba Cloud Access Key>
# MaxCompute Endpoint
odps.end.point=<Your MaxCompute Endpoint>
# MaxCompute exclusive resource group name
odps.quota.name=<Your MaxCompute Exclusive Resource Group Name>
```

> Replace `<Your MaxCompute Project Name>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access ID>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access Key>`, `<Your MaxCompute Service Endpoint>`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Replace `<Your MaxCompute Project Name>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access ID>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access Key>`, `<Your MaxCompute Service Endpoint>`,
```

> and `<Your MaxCompute Exclusive Resource Group Name>` with the actual values for your MaxCompute environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `<Your MaxCompute Exclusive Resource Group Name>` with the values for your MaxCompute environment.
```

### Accessing Multiple MaxCompute Projects

> To access multiple MaxCompute projects simultaneously, please create separate configuration files for each project. For example, if you have two projects, one for "sales" (`sales`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access multiple MaxCompute projects simultaneously, create separate configuration files for each project. For example, if you have two projects, one for "sales" (`sales`)
```

and another for "analysis" (`analytics`), then you can create `sales.properties` and `analytics.properties` configuration files. Specify a different `odps.project.name` in each
file:

- `sales.properties` for the sales project.
- `analytics.properties` for the analysis project.

>   With this setup, `sales` and `analytics` directories will be created in Presto respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  With this setup, `sales` and `analytics` directories will be created in Presto respectively.
```
Should `directories` be `catalogs`?

> ### Data Type Mapping

Reviewer: This Data Type Mapping section would be ideal to move into the connector documentation for this new connector, in a new file in https://github.com/prestodb/presto/tree/master/presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/connector.

> When using the MaxCompute connector, MaxCompute's data types will be mapped to Presto's data types. The table below shows this mapping relationship and its corresponding Presto

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the MaxCompute connector, MaxCompute's data types are mapped to Presto's data types. The table below shows this mapping relationship and its corresponding Presto
```

- Resource group configuration: Possession of an exclusive Tunnel resource group is required. Note: MaxCompute currently allows access to shared resource groups, but this could
  change at any time. See [Exclusive resource group](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/purchase-and-use-exclusive-resource-groups-for-dts).
- (Optional) Schema activation: Enable Schema mode to use different directories in Presto. See
  [How to Enable Schema Model in MaxCompute](https://help.aliyun.com/zh/maxcompute/user-guide/schema-related-operations) for more information.

### Obtain the Connector JAR

Obtain the JAR file by building the repository. Use the Maven command `mvn clean package` to build the project and generate the
JAR. Once built, place the JAR file into the `plugin/maxcompute` directory within your Presto installation.

### Configuration

Before configuring the MaxCompute connector, have ready all the necessary information associated with your MaxCompute project, including project name, access
ID, access key, and resource group name.

1. Create a configuration file (for example, `maxcompute.properties`) in Presto's `etc/catalog` directory:

> ```properties

Reviewer: Suggest indenting the code block so that it displays within item 1. As it is, the code block is flush with the left margin. You can check this with "View file" in GitHub, which is in the menu displayed when "..." in the upper right of this file is selected.

connector.name=maxcompute
# MaxCompute project name, connections support only this project
odps.project.name=<Your MaxCompute Project Name>
# Alibaba Cloud authentication parameter
odps.access.id=<Your Alibaba Cloud Access ID>
# Alibaba Cloud authentication parameter
odps.access.key=<Your Alibaba Cloud Access Key>
# MaxCompute Endpoint
odps.end.point=<Your MaxCompute Endpoint>
# MaxCompute exclusive resource group name
odps.quota.name=<Your MaxCompute Exclusive Resource Group Name>
```

2. Replace `<Your MaxCompute Project Name>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access ID>`, `<Your Alibaba Cloud Access Key>`, `<Your MaxCompute Service Endpoint>`,
and `<Your MaxCompute Exclusive Resource Group Name>` with the values for your MaxCompute environment.

### Accessing Multiple MaxCompute Projects

To access multiple MaxCompute projects simultaneously, create separate configuration files for each project. For example, if you have two projects, one for "sales" (`sales`)
and another for "analysis" (`analytics`), then you can create `sales.properties` and `analytics.properties` configuration files. Specify a different `odps.project.name` in each
file:

- `sales.properties` for the sales project.

> - `analytics.properties` for the analysis project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `analytics.properties` for the analysis project.

```
Suggest add a blank line to left-justify the next line ("With this setup, ..."). As it is, "With this setup," is part of the `analytics.properties` list item.

### Data Type Mapping

When using the MaxCompute connector, MaxCompute's data types are mapped to Presto's data types. The table below shows this mapping relationship and its corresponding Presto
types:

| MaxCompute Data Type | Presto Data Type |
|----------------------|------------------|
| BOOLEAN              | BOOLEAN          |
| TINYINT              | TINYINT          |
| SMALLINT             | SMALLINT         |
| INT                  | INTEGER          |
| BIGINT               | BIGINT           |
| FLOAT                | REAL             |
| DOUBLE               | DOUBLE           |
| DECIMAL              | DECIMAL          |
| STRING               | VARCHAR          |
| VARCHAR              | VARCHAR          |
| JSON                 | VARCHAR          |
| CHAR                 | CHAR             |
| BINARY               | VARBINARY        |
| DATE                 | DATE             |
| DATETIME             | TIMESTAMP        |
| TIMESTAMP            | TIMESTAMP        |
| TIMESTAMP_NTZ        | TIMESTAMP        |
| DECIMAL              | DECIMAL          |
| ARRAY                | ARRAY            |

> Please note that some MaxCompute data types (such as `MAP`, `STRUCT`) are not yet fully supported in the current version of the connector. We plan to continue refining support for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Some MaxCompute data types (such as `MAP`, `STRUCT`) are not fully supported in the current version of the connector.
```
In general, documentation should describe the current state and does not use future tense. Suggest deleting the second sentence.

> these data types in future versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Notices

> This project is still under active development, with plans to introduce more features in subsequent versions, such as support for DDL operations, data writing, and expanded data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project is under active development, with plans to introduce more features in subsequent versions, such as support for DDL operations, data writing, and expanded data
```
Suggest removing "still" as unneeded.
